In the last video, we had a quick discussion around how we fetch data during the server side rendering
process.
So let's get back to our topic at hand.
We are trying to make sure that we can display on the initial response that comes back to the user's
browser on that initial HTML document, whether or not the user is signed in.
So we need to make a request to figure whether or not the user is authenticated during the server side
rendering process.
So that means that from inside of get initial props, we need to make a request off to our off service.
That's our goal.
We know that we are going to have to place this request inside of get initial props because only get
initial props or get initial props is the only location where we can fetch data during the server side
rendering process.
So with all that in mind, let's go back over to our editor and find our indexed JS file at the very
top.
I'm going to import Axios from Axios.
Now we're going to make Axios to make the request.
And as I say that you might be curious, why are we using Axios when we just put together that use request
hook a little bit ago?
Remember, we created User Quest to make it really easy to make some kind of request and possibly handle
any errors that might occur.
The reason for this is that user request is a hook and hooks are used inside of react components.
Get initial props right here is not a component.
It is a plane function.
We call this thing, or I should say next JZ calls this thing and we are required to immediately return
some data.
So we can only use user request inside of a react component.
And as I just mentioned in the last video, we are not allowed to fetch data from inside of a component
during the server side rendering process.
We can only fetch data from inside of git initial props, so that's why we are using Axios instead of
user request.
All right, so let's make use of Axios to fetch some data from inside of get initial props.
I'm going to put on the async keyword right here.
I'm going to get a response from await Axios target API users current user.
So then we're going to take the response right here, or more precisely, we're going to take the data
out of it and return it from get initial props.
As a quick reminder on what response we should really expect to receive back, I'm going to pull Open
Postman very quickly, just to give you a quick reminder.
All right.
This thing is slow to open, but here we go.
So I'm going to make a get request to users current user.
And we expect to receive back an object that has a current user property.
And if we are signed in, we should see an object there, otherwise we will see null.
So that is the structure of data that we're going to expect to receive back.
So that's going to be on the response data property.
So from this function, we will return response data like so.
That means that now inside of our component itself, we should get a current user property.
So if right now, let's replace that console log.
And just do a console log of current user.
All right.
So I think that this is ready to test.
Now, I want you to know that the code we have inside of here is good.
Everything inside of here.
This is how we correctly fetch data.
However, what we have right here is not going to work for some very interesting reasons, specifically
because we're making use of this Kubernetes system and all this kind of crazy stuff.
So, again, the code we have here is good, but we're going to have to add in a little bit of a configuration
change to get this stuff to work just because of how we are making use of next JS, specifically inside
of a Kubernetes environment.
So let's save this.
I'm going to flip back over to my browser.
And then I'm going to refresh the page.
When I do so I get a real nasty air.
Air connection refused local host.
That's essentially what that IP is.
Or 80.
Well, that might be a little bit unexpected.
Let me show you something really interesting.
Back over inside of indexes.
I'm going to comment out, get initial props and I'm going to copy the Axios, get call to inside of
my component.
I'm not going to put a weight on there or anything like that.
I'm just going to attempt to make the request from inside the browser.
I'm then going to save this look back over.
Now it looks like everything is loading up successfully again.
But what's more relevant is you'll notice inside of my network request log I was able to successfully
make the request off to our service.
So let me summarize what just happened here.
When we tried to make this request while we were executing this code on our server, it failed horribly
and we saw that really mysterious error message.
But when we were making that request from inside the browser, everything worked as expected.
So there's some difference in environment here.
Something is very different when we try to make the request on our server versus on our clients or really
inside the browser itself.
So let's take a pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video, and I'm going to help you understand exactly why we're seeing
this oddity.